How to Add Data to Assets & Identities
Creating a Lookup Table File
File Upload
If you are uploading a lookup table file to Splunk for A&I information, such as a list of static Ips and
hostnames provided by the client, do the following:

1. In Excel or the editor of your choice, enjoy that the fields in the file match the required fields,
depending on if the data is asset information or identity information. Optionally, you can upload the
file directly and edit the field names/values in Splunk later on.
2. Save/ensure the file is a utf-8 encoded CSV, then Upload the lookup table to Splunk in the
Enterprise Security app by going to Settings->Lookups->Lookup Table Files->Add New. For the file
name, its typically fine to just name it the same name.
3. After uploading the lookup table, locate the lookup table and click on Permissions - we need to
share it globally. In the permissions screen, ensure the Object is shared to All apps, and is readable
by Everyone. It can be set to be written to by whatever role you deem necessary - typically power is
fine. Click save.
If you need to edit the lookup table by changing field names or adding values to fields, you can do
so in Splunk at this point by opening up a new search and using inputlookup/outputlookup.
IMPORTANT! OUTPUTLOOKUP WILL COMPLETELY REWRITE THE LOOKUP TABLE -
PLEASE RUN YOUR SEARCH WITHOUT THE OUTPUTLOOKUP COMMAND TO ENSURE
YOUR CHANGES ARE ACCURATE BEFORE RUNNING THE SEARCH AGAIN WITH
OUTPUTLOOKUP

From a Saved Search
If you are creating an asset/identity table from a saved search, for example from DHCP data every 30min,
follow these steps:
1. Create and test the search string in a Splunk search. Ensure that you are returning the correct fields
depending on whether you are writing a lookup table for assets or identities.
Once you are satisfied with the saved search, add "|outputlookup <table_name>.csv" to the end of
the search, and run it again.

Next, create a saved search in Splunk. Go to Settings -> Searches, reports, and alerts -> New
Report
Title your report something descriptiv, like "NH - Universal Forwarder Asset Lookup Gen". Fill out
the description field with what the search is doing. Set your earliest time based on the data you are
looking at and how often you are running the search. For example, DHCP leases typically change
every 30mins, so if you are looking at DHCP asset info, you would run the search for -30m earliest,
and run it every 30min. Hit save.
Navigate to your alert, then hit Edit under Actions, and select "Edit Permissions". Ensure the
permissions are set to be shared globally, read by everyone, and written by whatever level role you
deem necessary. Hit save
Hit edit again, and select Edit Schedule. Schedule the search to run on an interval based upon the
data you are gathering for asset/identity info and your earliest search time. Hit save
Creating a Lookup Definition

In order for Splunk ES to use the lookup table, you must create a lookup definition for the lookup table:
1. Select Settings -> Lookups -> Lookup definitions -> New Lookup Definition
2. Destination app should be SplunkEnterpriseSecuritySuite. The name of the lookup definition can be
set to anything, but we typically set it to the name of the lookup table minus the csv suffix.
a. For example, if your lookup table is named my_lookup.csv, the definition name would be
my_lookup
3. Leave Type as File-Based, and find/select your lookup table in the Lookup file setting.
If your lookup table is CIDR based for the IP Address, it’s a good idea to give it this functionality.
Select Advanced Options, DESELECT Case Sensitive Match, under match type, type
CIDR(ip). PLEASE NOTE! If you use CIDR matching on the IP field, ALL THE VALUES FOR IP
MUST BE IN CIDR NOTATION. If you have a single IP address, add /32 at the end of it if it does not
currently have a /32 at the end.
Hit save, then ensure the permissions for your definition are set to be shared globally, read by
everyone, writable by whatever role you see fit.

Adding the Lookup to A&I
Now we have to add the actual lookup to A&I so Splunk case use it.

1. Inside of Enterprise Security, navigate to the menu up top and select Configure -> Data Enrichment
-> Asset and Identity Management
If you are adding an asset, make sure you are in "Asset Lookup Configuration". If you are adding an
identity, navigate to "Identity Lookup Configuration". Select "New"
Find your lookup definition as your source. If you cannot find it, make sure the permissions are
correct and reload the page.
For the Name, you can just use the name of the lookup definition to keep it simple. Category can be
set to anything, as can description. Everything else can be left as default. Hit save
Ensure that your new asset table is enabled. You can also click on the link under Source to edit the
lookup if necessary.
Ensure that your lookup is in the correct rank. Typically, things that are known from client
documentation with accurate information should be ranked higher than data that may be old or
slightly inaccruate/variable from indexes, like DHCP data.
Test
To ensure that your asset table was added, you can use the following command in Splunk to search through
the merged asset or identity table
ASSET:
" | `assets`"
The search above will not show if CIDR lookups are being applied correctly. You will need to test a ip that
would be overlapping in the search below
1| makeresults | eval src="<src_ip or dns host here>" | `get_asset(src)`
IDENTITYS
"| `identities`"
1| makeresults | eval user="<username or email>" | `get_identity4events(user)`
